Title :Should celebrities be allowed to join politics | blackcoffer insightsThe interplay between the seemingly contrasting worlds of celebrities and policy-makers have come into increasing contact, in India and the rest of the world-leading pop-music artists back presidential candidates, internationally acclaimed actors attempt international diplomacy, films are claimed to be vehicles of political messaging, Prime Ministerial banquets engage celluloid stars, and so on. The ‘influence’ that stars exert on the world of politics seems to encapsulate an entire spectrum of involvement – at the zenith of which are the celebrities who actually set foot into parliamentary assemblies and councils, to represent the public that they once only influenced.Although the phenomenon of the seeping of public influence into public policy has stretched through much of the 20th century, Choi and Berger (2001) suggest that the celebrity-politics connect continues to strengthen, much more than it did a few decades ago, as we trudge further into the century. Of the myriad causalities that underlie this circumstance, the global internet, where fame isn’t restricted to the confines of tangible achievement has been theorized to be a significant driver. In her 2009 book, Hyde labels this spectacle as a ‘mission creep’, where the enterprise of celebrities is expanding beyond its primary goals.Very often, the sentiment of anti-incumbency seems to be the golden ticket that lets celebrity politicians snatch political power from consummate politicians. Indeed, various political theorists suggest that anti-incumbency happens to be amongst the more effective strategies to secure vote banks. Until 31st December 2018, Ukrainian actor, screenwriter, and director Volodymyr Zelensky only played the lead in a sitcom that tells the story of a schoolteacher who accidentally becomes the president. It was that winter that Zelensky claimed that he was contesting the presidential elections to “change the mood and timbre of the political establishment” and to “bring professional, decent people to power”. Zelensky took the premise of his wildly popular show from the reel to the real, as he crushed rival, a seasoned politician, and incumbent Poroshenko in a landslide victory. Has Zelensky proved a better representative of his people than his predecessor? Time is yet to deliver its verdict. But the gushes that he invoked in the people of Ukraine, and his plea to oust ‘the ruling class’ played their role in assuring Zelensky 73% of the plebiscite. In the early 2010s in India, similar anti-incumbent sentimentalities were played into by the many celebrities including musician Vishal Dadlani, hockey legend Dhanraj Pillay, singer Jaspinder Narula, and others – all of whom joined hands with Arvind Kejriwal’s  ‘Aam Aadmi’ movement that aimed to rid the existing political system of its ills.And so, innumerable celebrities across countries and cultures claim the throne. In fact, a Wikipedia page that maintains an inventory of actor-politician spanning the atlas claims that it ‘may never be able to satisfy particular standards for completeness’ – depicting the sheer number of celebrities who reroute to politics. This begets questioning the congruence of the world of personage and that of politics. In a research article published in 1995, Meyer and Gamson articulated the possibility of celebrities choosing to politically address only broadly acceptable social causes because they understand their power rests with staying popular, thereby failing to make any appreciable difference. This seems to ring true with some celebrity politicians in India, especially ones who are nominated to the Upper House of the Parliament but fail abysmally to leave a mark. One of many such representatives is Gautam Gambhir, a cricketer-turned-politician who has mostly been shunned for his abject performance in the parliament. Hema Malini, another popular actress who turned to politics, came under heavy criticism when her claim to be a protector of women’s rights wasn’t backed by an effort to fulfill her promises. Owing to such instances, research findings such as those by Nisbett and DeWalt (2016) find that the public often questions the intentions of the celebrities who venture into politics. It may also seem that in entering politics and failing to deliver, celebrity politicians often deprive grass-root political workers of the chance to enter the mainstream of politics.More often than not, celebrity engagement in politics has been used to woo voters from the younger strata of the population. Empirical studies such as the one by Austin, Vord, Pinkleton, and Epstein (2008), have conclusively shown to enhance political engagement by younger voters.  Along similar lines, Jackson (2008) found that young people are more likely to agree with political positions that are endorsed by politicians. In fact, many modern political theorists are of the belief that the involvement of celebrities in politics allows for otherwise uninvolved or apathetic veins of the demographic, to be active participants in democracy. Hillary Clinton aimed to do just that when she got the Billboard-topping artists Beyonce and Jay-Z to take center-stage at her rally in Cleveland, in the weeks leading up to the 2016 US presidential elections – in fact, as multiple sources suggest, this rally did see a surge in millennial supporters. In such a case, it might be in the benefit of the community to have more celebrities endorse and engage in politics in order to nurture a more vibrant and engaged youth.   From our vantage point today, the relationship between personage and politics seems to be a central fixture in society and is here to stay. What remains to be done, however, is to ensure the symbiotic course of this relationship – to scrutinize and critique the celebrities who knock the doors of politics and to secure their promises of beneficence and non-maleficence to the public that it seeks to serve. Yet, it may seem that these are benchmarks that need to be met by any and all servants of the people – celebrity or not, but in the world that we live in, this is certainly not the case. Politicians – celebrity or not, largely happen upon the sphere of governance without a lot of experience backing them and learn to navigate the maze of politics on the job. Ultimately, like all things in democracy, the government is of the people and its representatives are of them, and for them. The eventual endorsement of its leaders – celebrity or not – can come, not from data-based analyses and elaborate critique, but from the people. Should celebrities be allowed to enter politics? The question remains unanswered. Or rather, is answered by the democratic exercise itself – with the beeps of electronic ballots election after election, when the people – the real ‘influencers’, choose.